Okay.
Well, let me just count that statement by saying that don't forget that there are any number of collectors over the past who have had merchandise delivered to them by booksellers and not asked the bookseller into the house.
Yeah, but everybody wanted to see who this guy was.
Everybody wanted to, but that doesn't necessarily mean that he has to comply.
But he was just delivering the first portfolio of Shakespeare and he had just come up from New York.
I know.
And it's not an unreasonable request to want to go and use the mention.
No, I'm saying that's unreasonable.
I'm saying that behavior is unreasonable, but it is not unknown.
And I have known collectors in England.
who would just take delivery of a valuable book at the door, and you were expected not to come in.
And that was that.
There's a certain area here of tradesmen and gentlemen.
You may not understand that.
On the other hand, let me interject.
Haven actively sought out the company of other collectors, of booksellers, book people such as yourself.
We actively sought their company and sought ways to be invited to their homes and then used John Fleming to get invitations.
I'm sure getting to your house that night was kind of a cool thing.
No, I shouldn't think so.
No, not the slightest thing.
Just a minor, very much a minor figure.
No, he associated with booksellers.
I don't think he associated with collectors until later on.
I think he may have, I don't know, when the episode of Shidey took place.
Late.
Blake, yeah, well he also, if you remember, he got involved with the Blake things.
Nicholas Bartle will fill you in on the works.
Geoffrey Caines and this and that, sure.
Anyway, it was a great, great film.
And if he'd gone on for 30 odd years, it would have been an immeasurably greater film.
Did you know...
Did you ever have any dealings with Michael Davis's father, Leonard Davis?
Not at all, no.
Do you know who Leonard Davis is?
No.
I heard of Michael Davis only at the time when we did the appraisal.
And I think I must have seen Michael Davis's name on an invoice delivered to Michael Davis.
I think it was an H.P.
Crown invoice.
And I heard, I heard of Michael Davis from Thorne Weldon, who worked for John Fleming.
He now works at Journal Street.
I know, yeah.
You've had lunch with him.
Good, because I heard from Thorne, I mean, quite innocent.
Thorne's not a child, she's a woman.
And Thorne said, my God, yeah, we all remembered Michael Davis.
His nickname was Fox.
Well, I don't know.
She said we used to party with Michael here in New York in 1974 and five.
Why not?
She was, however old she would have been then, she would have been 19 or 20, I suppose.
So fine.
It's an amazing story, isn't it?
It's an amazing story.
Well, you know more about that than I do.
What's the outcome of the suit?
Did you know that his name is probably 19 or more?
Well, yes, I knew that, but I didn't know what the name was.
Do you know now?
Nope.
I didn't have an idea.
No, not from memory, I don't.
How did you know that it wasn't his name?
I think it was mentioned by Arthur Houghton to me.
No, he didn't know the name, but there were just a number of people.
Yeah, that's right.
That's right.
That's the title of that chapter, by the way.
Have No More.
No, sure.
So what was his name?
I haven't worked with him.
Oh, you still don't know him?
Shackley Product.
This is years ago.
Speculation of various sorts about background of his money.
One of the things he told me was that it developed...
a guidance system for Polaris missiles and sold it to the government.
And that had us wreathed in smiles for a number of months.
Shaq and Fredericks?
Shaq, he told you that name?
No, I think somebody, I think I heard it around here.
I'll check it out.
You can, sure.
And then I heard that his wife had money.
She's from Arkansas.
Harris from Arkansas.
Yeah, well, I heard on the grapevine that she had money.
None of these things meant anything when we heard about Michael Davis.
As soon as we heard about Michael Davis, we then said, ah, that's the source of his money.
That's fine.
One other quick thing.
Did he tell you where he went to school?
No.
On the 1980s and the 1990s, was the 1980s a new golden age in bookselling and book collecting?
As David Redden has asserted, and as Ed Wolff said, he said, well, I didn't see any picklet papers, not picklet papers, Paul Richard Alman, actually.
You know, a golden age.
He said, we'd love to have a complete set of books.
I guess what he's saying is that there's some wonderful things available, but you still couldn't, by the way, Huntington was able to buy 70, 80 years ago.
But nevertheless, there were some marvelous things because of the changes in the tax laws and the institutions.
Not getting the material that they want.
That's a very dry, unfocused state.
But maybe if you could just give me a comment on the 80s and what you see in the 90s.
How's that?
My view of the thought of high prices and big time auctions really starts in November 1985.
It's the first time we had a general miscellaneous consigned sale.
from various owners that was 100% sold across the board.
There seemed at that time to be a situation where everything just sold at Auckland.
Everything sold and for very high prices.
There had been great sales with us before.
Some of our greatest sales, namely
the Chew Sale in 1982, in which we had the original manuscript of the Mason-Dixon line, and the Declaration of Independence, and the Charter for Pennsylvania.
A sale like that made $800,000.
A sale like that today would bring $5 million.
Even today?
I'm saying today, from 82 to 91, it would bring $5 million.
Today, well, assuming that a copy of the Declaration of Independence belonging to Justice Chew with an impeccable provenance, it's got to bring as much as the last one, mate, I would have thought.
Which nobody knows what to know.
Any theories on that?
Do you think it was found in a free market?
No, I don't know.
You want me to guess?
No, I don't think so.
I think it came out of an archive.
Most of them come out of archives.
The Corn Leary copy emerged in a bookstore, which is possible.
The Corn Leary copy that was sold in 1969, it was at Leary's bookstore in Philadelphia for many, many years.
before being sold in 1969.
The copy that we sold for the Chew family was discovered in the archive in 1972.
The copy in the Chew family archive.
The copy we sold for the Wood family in North Carolina from Edenton was discovered in a family archive in about 1981.
and it was shown to Freddie Goff, he showed it to me, and we sold it a year after the two, the two copy.
But what I'm saying is that... Tuck, tuck, tuck behind a picture frame, and you can't find the picture frame, and the picture's gone, and then it's taken two years to sell it from the sale.
And the owner, we don't know who the owner is either, the consignor.
No.
The whole thing is strange.
And yet it's a heck of a beautiful coffee.
Well, there's nothing wrong with it being a beautiful coffee, but they often are beautiful.
The Chew coffee and the wood coffee that we sold were equally beautiful.
The magnificent coffees, you can just see pictures of them in a
in the catalogs.
I mean, they were brilliant copies.
They were quite as good as that one.
When you say an archive, you think a private archive or an institutional archive that hasn't been catalogued?
I haven't any idea.
I have no idea.
I mean, now let's talk briefly about texts.
I guess we'd have to go.
Did you know Luke Feldman at all?
Very well.
Can you give me a couple of quick insights on Luke and David Feldman?
Well, no, I remember him from when I was a kid, from when I was 18, and
We're travelling to London each year with his wife, Big Astrakhan Colin Coat.
I remember him buying the Chaucer at Christie's sale in 1974.
I remember I wasn't there because Bart was sent over for the sale, I think.
But just after I left London, we had a sale of the Library of Siegfried Sassoon.
And apart from one smallish sale in 19...
68 or 67 in London, which was a sale of pamphlets of Swift, where Traylon bought something like 80% of the sale.
I mean, that's like batting 400, you know what I mean?
At the Secret Sassoon sale, I think Felton bought 85% of the sale for stock.
Bartle... For stock?
For stock.
He'll clarify that number, yeah.
did you think that this was being brought actually for texas well it had texas in mind but i think he was buying it for stuff and and that's that's something to do with i mean at the first chance for sale that we had in 1958 fleming would have bought something like 40 percent and he was by far and away
The biggest buyer.
Any insight as to why Texas Letters?
Hicks told them to be their exclusive agent.
Why nobody else had a shot selling?
No, I've no idea.
But I mean, that was pretty much understood that he was acting almost exclusively.
Well, because he had a good relationship with Ransom, I would have thought.
I mean, you mean, do I know any of the scufflepots?
No, I don't, is the answer.
No, I don't know any of the scufflepots.
any more than, I mean, one knows that among these dealers, in the old days, a dealer would have a cast-iron relationship with certain collectors or librarians.
My father, who died in 1980, and Ted Green of Quaritch, who died about three years ago,
They were rather remarkable in post-war London because they were the two heads of firms who did the most unusual thing of having lunch together once in a while.
You never used to do that.
You never used to have this kind of closeness.
And now, of course, everybody's sharing everything because nobody can afford it anyway to buy it for themselves in a picture sale.
I mean, this is kind of small fly stuff in the book market, but can you imagine...
going to a general picture sale at Sotheby's in 1989 and the general picture sale was 200 million dollars and you have all those people in the audience and they're buying and some of them are buying for stock or rather they're buying to sell on so therefore you put your hand up and you buy a painting for five million well
if i put my hand up as a dealer and bought it for five million i might have three people who's sharing that with me because i can't possibly buy the check for five million on my own then when the time comes through if i was a collector if the time comes to me to resell manny's got a point you can't duplicate those ideas because
I'd like to stick my hand up again and say five million for that payment.
But the other five guys, they're not going to lend me the money anymore, you see.
So you're still dealing with books in an area that's kind of containable.
It's containable in the sums of money.
It's in a reality.
You know very well that your $1,500 purchase is something that you consider very carefully, but it's still a containable number.
It's, I don't know, it's an eighth of a Honda Civic with everything on it.
What do you think about the Manny sale?
You thought the Guardian sale was a really great collection of books.
What do you know of the Manny sale?
How do you judge that?
How do I judge it by comparison with the garden?
Well, as a collection of books that's coming up for sale, I mean, it's certainly going to be in the top ten in terms of grossing, wouldn't you think?
Top ten of what?
Of book sales.
I don't know.
I don't know what the estimate on it is.
All I can tell you about it is that it's... Well, if you go over ten million, you're in the top ten easily.
Is it a ten million dollar sale?
I don't know.
Nobody knows.
They've got estimates.
The Shakespeare's alone are two million, right?
You have to put two million on the Shakespeare's.
Why do you have to put two million on the Shakespeare's?
Because that was the price two years ago.
Well, why do you have to put two million on it now, then?
What would you put on it?
I don't know, but I wouldn't have put a million on it in the first place.
I didn't.
There was a million on it.
I know.
I said I wouldn't have put a million on it in the first place, and I didn't.
Interesting.
It's nice.
It's straightforward.
I mean,
If you bought a Rolls-Royce in 1989, how much would you sell it for now?
Well, but automobiles don't appreciate the way... No, that's right.
So are you trying to make me into Mr. Manny or what?
No, no, no, no.
Well, if you had Van Gogh's irises to sell now, how much would it make?
Not 200 million or 100 million.
Well, no, it would hardly make that.
It made 50 million on money.
I was thinking of those other two that went for 150 million.
It made 50 million with Sotheby's lending money on it in 1988.
So how much would it make now?
That's all I'm saying.
So, you know.